All right.
Up next we have e m values which again in one sentence would be relative value.
However the key is in the details.
So basically devil is in the details where it depends on a parent again and as always I think it's just
easier to go through with an example.
Now we're gonna head over first to indexation AML and we're going to create something else.
I'm gonna say there's gonna be paragraph and four paragraph.
I don't know can be you know what.
Let's just write text absolute and actually change my mind so I'm can read Paragraph.
We're gonna be hearing three with a text off first maybe relative as well as we're going to have the
same class so there was a class and this is also gonna be relative.
Now what I would like to do with the second heading one since I'm going to copy and paste it is I'm
gonna change this value from the relative and I'm gonna say this will gonna be absolute.
So two hitting threes.
One with relative and the other one with absolute.
So far so good then we're heading back to style C assess and we can obviously get rid of these styles
because we already don't have the diff so there's no use for them whenever I'm gonna be working right
now with the relative and absolute I would like to select the class because this is what I have in my
indexation you know.
So first let me try to select.
So I'm going to say for relative value I'm gonna add something that's not going to make sense right
now I'm gonna say let's say font size the property we already know.
So this should make sense but I'm gonna write to Ms.
Okay.
So I'm getting the text.
I mean doesn't really matter what I have there because I haven't covered yet what is in MS but now let's
look at the absolute.
So I'm going to say absolute absolute and this is gonna be font size and obviously this would be second
hand and three and we're gonna say font size is gonna be 32 pixels.
Okay.
Now I know it might be hard to see because it's a different text.
So maybe if you want you can go back and just write in different text the one that would match absolute
but I can tell you right away they are exactly the same now how do I know.
Well you see first of all as I'm looking here what do you think is a parent element for my relative
class here.
Well if I'm looking at it I see that this is a body and for the body by default in most cases the base
text or default browser styles which will by the way cover the default browser styles right after this
section and the default browser style is 16 pixels.
Basically the font size or default browsers I'm sorry in the browser default font size is 16 pixels
now 1 a.m. 1 E M value is equal to in this case 16 pixels however if we're going to change this value
then also the E M is going to change.
So for now both of them are exactly the same.
Because this is 32 pixels absolute value.
And this to them is also 32 pixels because my default browser style is 16 pixel.
But what about if we're going to go to the settings and again you don't have to do this you can just
watch how I'm doing it.
But as I click on the second order here I have an option for the settings.
Now I'm going to click on the settings and then as you scroll down noticed you have an option for font
size.
Now again if you're using different browser it would be look a different place but if you are using
Google Chrome you should be able to find here font size.
Now in this case I have right away medium which is default style.
Well what if I would change this.
What I would say over here very large.
I can close the settings.
Notice something interesting.
So now my relative is actually way bigger than the absolute because I changed this default browser style
font size.
Now this is not anymore 16.
This is in fact bigger.
And I can see this because this relative is actually bigger than absolute.
Now let me first of all change it back and once I change it back let's create another example.
And just so you know for sure that this is exactly what I'm saying.
Now I'm gonna head over again back to indexation email.
And in this case we're going to create our own parent containers for these heading three so for the
first one we're gonna create some random div and Megan selected probably going to place it here within
the day.
And for the second one we're also going to do the same thing.
So almost everything the same.
However now both of our heading threes are as a children for two of the dips.
So have parent Dave as well as the second parent.
What about now.
Well I'm gonna go back to a safe house.
I'm going to say for all the divs the font size the base font size shouldn't be let's say I don't know
20 pixels.
So font size they're my property and I'm going to say 20 pixels.
Now what do you think is going to happen notice.
Again this is bigger.
And if I would actually want to maybe prove the point a little bit better I'm going to say 10 pixels.
So right now the ESM is following the fact that the parent has the base size the 10 pixel so it's 1
a.m. or is the right now equal to what.
Well this is equal to a 10 pixel.
So now this font size is in fact 20 pixels because all we're doing is basically multiplying.
So if my base font size is 10 pixels now I multiply by 2 and I'm getting 20 pixels right here.
Then the absolute one doesn't care about that the absolute still stays 32.
So that's the key whenever you're working with the E M values.
Remember that you will gonna be depending on the parent container and if you're changing something in
the parent container that's gonna reflect of what's happening with he e m values.